README.md, before:

# Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset
A toolset to procedurally create terrain for TaleSpire in Houdini.

![TerrainGenerationExamples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100365731/200086786-b029760e-56f0-46f3-9caf-729247d36fbe.png)

## About the Toolset
This is a set of tools to aid in the creation of [TaleSpire](https://talespire.com/) Terrain 
in [SideFX Software's Houdini](https://www.sidefx.com/products/houdini/).
It is designed to let creativity flow, you can use every aspect of Houdini to help you sculpt creations for 
TaleSpire by hand or procedurally. 
At its core these tools utilize the Heightfield features of Houdini to craft landscapes so if you are 
new to Houdini learning that aspect of the software is a good start.

Houdini is a node-based procedural system so the Toolset consist of a set of Houdini Nodes called
HDA's (Houdini Digital Assets)

### Overview Video
Feature overview video:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100365731/200082578-f8a54857-8b44-46fa-9ebf-432656713204.png">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=193IomvemaA)

### Current Nodes
#### TaleSpire_Terrain
The main node for managing a terrain project, this node contains subnetworks that allow a workspace to 
craft your terrain. It is also the main interface for setting up the terrain and exporting the final results.
#### TaleSpire_Object
This node is used to import a TaleSpire Tile, Prop or Slab for use in the system. It has controls over the 
placement of these objects in regard to how they interact with other nodes like TaleSpire_Tiler and TaleSpire_Scatter.
#### TaleSpire_Biome
This node defines a Biome which controls what TaleSpire Tiles and Props get put on to the terrain. It has 
subnetworks within for defining sets of objects, rules for placing Tiles and rules for placing/scattering Props.
#### TaleSpire_Tiler
This node is used within the TaleSpire_Biome node to define what areas specific sets of tiles are placed on the terrain.
#### TaleSpire_Scatter
This node is used within the TaleSpire_Biome node to scatter props on to a terrain based on rules and masks.

## Installation
- Install Houdini 19.0.x, If you have the option in the installer I recommend installing Houdini Labs as well.
- Launch Houdini, so it creates the proper working folders then close it.
- Download and Unzip the release of this tool, put the directory wherever you want, I like to put it in
`Documents\TaleSpire\Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset`
- In your Houdini19.0 directory, usually located in `Documents\Houdini19.0` create a `packages\` directory and
inside that directory create a file called `HTTGT.json`. Copy the following code block in to the contents of the file
but replace the path with where you installed the toolset, make sure it points to the `packages` directory:
`..\Documents\Houdini19.0\packages\HTTGT.json`
```
{
    "package_path": "D:/Users/<username>/Documents/TaleSpire/Houdini_Terrain_Generation_Toolset/packages"
}
```
:warning: **If you copy and paste the path swap the backslashes "\\" with forward slashes "/"**
- Launch Houdini and you should be able to create a `TaleSpire_Terrain` node in the `/obj` network editor.
If you can't, something went wrong, check all the steps.
- After placing the `TaleSpire_Terrain` node, go to the settings tab on that node and set the `talespire_directory`
parameter to be the location of your TaleSpire install. This setting should persist for new scenes and nodes.
- Create amazing Terrains and share your work!

### Examples
#### Terrain
There is an example Houdini scene file included with this distribution `hip/examples/example_Forest_Gully.hipnc`.
It is best to copy this scene to an alternate location before running it as it needs to save local data. Alternately you 
can launch it and "Save As" to a working directory.

I recommend running through all the comments before attempting to resize the map from its 60x60 default since there are a 
few areas that may not work properly which are noted within the file.

#### Biomes
There is a scene file containing example the example biomes being used for development, more biomes will be available in
the future. `hip/examples/biomes.hipnc`

### Better with Mods!
This tool supports use of a mod that allows multiple slab pastes at once. That's right, instead of laboriously hand 
placing hundreds of slabs you could do it all with a single click and paste.

To install and use the mods visit the wiki page:
* [Multi-Paste Feature](https://github.com/Baldrax/Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset/wiki/Multi-Paste-Feature)

## Contact
Join us on Discord to discuss the toolset, share work and inspiration and to get the latest news.

https://discord.gg/fUp8eK2mgK

### Attributions
The TaleSpire Slab Encoding/Decoding code was originally authored by LuPro 
at [LuPro/SlabelFish](https://github.com/LuPro/SlabelFish)

Commit message:

Updated Readme.md, Fixed some typos, moved Installation instructions to the Wiki.

README.md, after:

# Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset
A toolset to procedurally create terrain for TaleSpire in Houdini.

![TerrainGenerationExamples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100365731/200086786-b029760e-56f0-46f3-9caf-729247d36fbe.png)

## About the Toolset
This is a set of tools to aid in the creation of [TaleSpire](https://talespire.com/) Terrain 
in [SideFX Software's Houdini](https://www.sidefx.com/products/houdini/). Houdini has a free "Apprentice" license 
available for non-commercial work.
It is designed to let creativity flow, you can use every aspect of Houdini to help you sculpt creations for 
TaleSpire by hand or procedurally. 
At its core these tools utilize the Heightfield features of Houdini to craft landscapes so if you are 
new to Houdini learning that aspect of the software is a good start.

Houdini is a node-based procedural system so the Toolset consist of a set of Houdini Nodes called
HDA's (Houdini Digital Assets)

### Overview Video
Feature overview video:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/100365731/200082578-f8a54857-8b44-46fa-9ebf-432656713204.png">](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=193IomvemaA)

### Current Nodes
#### TaleSpire_Terrain
The main node for managing a terrain project, this node contains subnetworks that allow a workspace to 
craft your terrain. It is also the main interface for setting up the terrain and exporting the final results.
#### TaleSpire_Object
This node is used to import a TaleSpire Tile, Prop or Slab for use in the system. It has controls over the 
placement of these objects in regard to how they interact with other nodes like TaleSpire_Tiler and TaleSpire_Scatter.
#### TaleSpire_Biome
This node defines a Biome which controls what TaleSpire Tiles and Props get put on to the terrain. It has 
subnetworks within for defining sets of objects, rules for placing Tiles and rules for placing/scattering Props.
#### TaleSpire_Tiler
This node is used within the TaleSpire_Biome node to define what areas specific sets of tiles are placed on the terrain.
#### TaleSpire_Scatter
This node is used within the TaleSpire_Biome node to scatter props on to a terrain based on rules and masks.

## Installation
The installation instructions are available on the wiki.
* [Toolset Installation Instructions](https://github.com/Baldrax/Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset/wiki/Installation)


### Examples
#### Terrain
There is an example Houdini scene file included with this distribution `hip/examples/example_Forest_Gully.hipnc`.
It is best to copy this scene to an alternate location before running it as it needs to save local data. Alternately you 
can launch it and "Save As" to a working directory.

I recommend running through all the comments before attempting to resize the map from its 60x60 default since there are a 
few areas that may not work properly which are noted within the file.

#### Biomes
There is a scene file containing example biomes being used for development, more biomes will be available in
the future. `hip/examples/biomes.hipnc`

### Better with Mods!
This tool supports use of a mod that allows multiple slab pastes at once. That's right, instead of laboriously hand 
placing hundreds of slabs you could do it all with a single click and paste.

To install and use the mods visit the wiki page:
* [Multi-Paste Feature](https://github.com/Baldrax/Houdini_TaleSpire_Terrain_Generation_Toolset/wiki/Multi-Paste-Feature)

## Contact
Join us on Discord to discuss the toolset, share work and inspiration and to get the latest news.

https://discord.gg/fUp8eK2mgK

### Attributions
The TaleSpire Slab Encoding/Decoding code was originally authored by LuPro 
at [LuPro/SlabelFish](https://github.com/LuPro/SlabelFish)
